In TypeScript, both type and interface are used for defining custom types, 
but they have some differences in how they can be used and their capabilities. 
Here are the key differences between type and interface:

## 1. Expression
Interfaces can't express unions, mapped types, or conditional types. Type aliases can express any type.
```ts
// union
type StringOrNumber = string | number

// primitive
type Name = string

// tuple
type RGB = [number, number, number]
```

## 2. Declaration Merging

- Interface supports declaration merging, which means we can extend an existing interface to add more properties or methods. When two interfaces with the same name are declared, their members are merged into a single interface. (can lead to unexpected bugs)
- Type does not support declaration merging.

#### Example of Interface Declaration Merging:
```ts
interface Person {
  name: string;
}

interface Person {
  age: number;
}

const person: Person = {
  name: "John",
  age: 30,
};

```
## 3. Extending

Both type and interface can be extended, but the syntax differs.
To extend an interface, we use the `extends` keyword.
To extend a type, we use the `&` symbol.
#### Interface extends interface:
```ts
interface Animal {
  name: string
}

interface Dog extends Animal {
  breed: string
}

```
#### Type alias extends type alias:
```ts
type Animal = {
  name: string
};

type Dog = Animal & {
  breed: string
};
```

#### Interface extends type alias:
```ts
type PartialPointX = { x: number };
interface Point extends PartialPointX { y: number }
````

#### Interface extends type alias:
```ts
interface PartialPointX { x: number }
type Point = PartialPointX & { y: number };
```
## 4. Compatibility

- `type` and `interface` have different behavior regarding type compatibility.
- When comparing two objects of the same `interface` type, TypeScript checks for structural compatibility. If the object has all the properties of the interface, even if it has extra properties, it is still considered compatible.
- When using type, objects must have an exact match with all properties in the type.

#### Example:
```ts
interface Point {
  x: number;
  y: number;
}

type Point2D = {
  x: number;
  y: number;
};

const point: Point = { x: 1, y: 2 };
const point2D: Point2D = { x: 1, y: 2, z: 3 }; // Error with type, but okay with interface.

```
## 5. Conditional Types
- `type` allows us to use conditional types, which can be useful for creating complex types based on conditions.

#### Example of Conditional Type with Type:
```ts
type MyType<T> = T extends string ? string : number;
```
---
### Summary
Both `type` and `interface` are powerful tools for defining custom types in TypeScript. 
The choice between them depends on our specific use case and preference. 
In general, if we need declaration merging or if we are defining a structure to 
represent an object, `interface` might be a better fit. On the other hand, if we need 
union types, intersection types, or conditional types, `type` might be more suitable. 
Often, we can use either `type` or `interface`, and it comes down to team's coding conventions and consistency.

When we're working with objects that inherit from each other, we should use interfaces. `extends` makes TypeScript's type checker run slightly faster than using `&`.

TypeScript can cache interface by its name in an internal registry. 
This means that future checks against it can be made faster. With an intersection type using `&`, it can't cache it via the name - it has to compute it nearly every time
```ts
type WithId = {
  id: string;
};
 
type User = WithId & {
  name: string;
};
 
const user: User = {
  id: "123",
  name: "Karl",
  wrongProperty: 123, // Error 'wrongProperty' does not exist in type 'User'
}
```